adding dotnet format docs (#25082)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/tools/dotnet-cleanup.md

---
title: dotnet cleanup command
description: The dotnet cleanup command cleans up code formatting to match editorconfig settings for the current directory.

> ms.date: 07/12/2020

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 07/12/2021
```

---
# dotnet cleanup

> **This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET Core 6.x SDK and later versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET 6.x SDK and later versions
```

## Name

`dotnet cleanup` - Cleans up code formatting to match editorconfig settings.

## Synopsis

```dotnetcli

> dotnet [options] cleanup [<PROJECT | SOLUTION>] [command]

Reviewer: Are `cleanup` and `[options]` swapped here?

Reviewer: What does `[command]` mean here?

dotnet clean -h|--help
```

## Description

> `dotnet cleanup` is a code formatter for dotnet that applies style preferences to a project or solution. Preferences will be read from an .editorconfig file, if present, otherwise a default set of preferences will be used.

Reviewer: Does this execute third party codefixes? Could the document be clear about this whether it's a yes or no?

## Arguments

`PROJECT | SOLUTION`

The MSBuild project or solution to run code formatting on. If a project or solution file is not specified, MSBuild searches the current working directory for a file that has a file extension that ends in *proj* or *sln*, and uses that file.

> ## Options

Reviewer: Which options are required and which are optional? For the optional ones, what is the default?

* **`--diagnostics <diagnostics>`**

  A space separated list of diagnostic ids to use as a filter when fixing code style or 3rd party issues.

* **`--severity`**

  The severity of diagnostics to fix. Allowed values are info, warn, and error.

* **`--no-restore`**

  Doesn't execute an implicit restore before formatting.

> * **`--include <include>`**

Reviewer 2: We usually render arguments in all caps.

>   A list of relative file or folder paths to include in formatting. All files are formatted if empty.

Reviewer 2: How are they delimited -- comma, semicolon?
```suggestion
  A list of relative file or folder paths to include in formatting. All files in the current directory are formatted if empty.
```

* **`--exclude <exclude>`**

>   A list of relative file or folder paths to exclude from formatting. [default: ]

Reviewer 2: How is the list delimited?  
Default is missing.

* **`--include-generated`**

  Format files generated by the SDK.

* **`--verify-no-changes`**

  Verify no formatting changes would be performed. Terminates with a non zero exit code if any files would have been formatted.

* **`-v|--verbosity <LEVEL>`**

>   Set the verbosity level. Allowed values are q[uiet], m[inimal], n[ormal], d[etailed], and diag[nostic]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Set the verbosity level. Allowed values are `q[uiet]`, `m[inimal]`, `n[ormal]`, `d[etailed]`, and `diag[nostic]`. Default value is `m[inimal]`.
```

* **`--binarylog <binary-log-path>`**

  Log all project or solution load information to a binary log file.

* **`--report <report-path>`**

>   Accepts a file path, which if provided, will produce a json report in the given directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Produces a JSON report in the directory specified by `<REPORT_PATH>`.
```

* **`-h|--help`**

  Show help and usage information

## Examples

> * Cleans up all code in the solution:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Clean up all code in the solution:
```

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet cleanup ./solution.sln
  ```

> * Cleans up all code in the application project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Clean up all code in the application project:
```

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet cleanup ./src/application.csproj
  ```

> * Verifies that all code is correctly formatted:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify that all code is correctly formatted:
```

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet cleanup --verify-no-changes
  ```
  

> * Cleans up all code in the `src` and `tests` directory but not in `src/submodule-a`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Clean up all code in the `src` and `tests` directory but not in `src/submodule-a`:
```
